Hello and welcome back.
What type of information and images can
we use for image and video segmentation?
In particular, I want to discuss a bit
about Edges and Regions.
Let's just look at one very nice image of
a flower.
we are going to assume that we want to
segment out this flower.
We want to separate the flower from the
background.
There are certain regions like here,
where there's a very clear boundary.
So we have this cast for example, edges
and gradients.
Remember, the gradient that we represent
in this form.
Which is nothing else than the vector of
the derivative in the image, derivative
of the image in each direction,
derivative of the image in the Y
direction.
we talk about how to implement that a few
weeks ago. For example, a derivative in
the X direction, we could do with a
simple filter of plus one, minus one and
minus one.
Now, if we take these derivatives and we
compute the magnitude of their vector,
because there are very clear differences
in both sides of the flower in this
region.
Very clearly, that will help us to
separate the flower from the background.
And we are going to see very often using
the gradient as part of our image
segmentation algorithms.
On the other hand, we see here.
We might also get gradients, but we don't
want these gradients to be part of the
segmentation.
There are differences inside the flower
that we don't want them to appear.
So, clearly we can use this borders,
these edges, or this gradient.
We don't want to use the ones inside and
that makes our life a bit more difficult.
But it also tells us that we are not
really looking for a uniform region
inside the flower.
If we were to put that as a constraint in
our segmentation, we will not get very
far, because inside the flower things
change a lot.
We are actually looking for big
differences between the flower and the
background.
And therefore, edges are going to be very
important to segment this flower.
As we're going to see in the future
videos.
But let us look at that slightly
different image.
Look at now at this image.
We clearly see a ball here, although
they're basically, let me just get the
pen, they're basically no edges here.
We see the ball but we don't see any
edges, but we understand the shape, so
here we're not going to be able to use
edge information, they're no edges if we
were to compute the gradient in this
region here. Any pixel here we will try
to compute the gradient, that gradient
will be zero or very low and won't help
us to find a border, to find a object of
interest.
On the other hand, we could use shape, we
could use regions,
okay?
So we could try to understand that this
is kind of a uniformed region, kind of a
uniformed region.
And actually we can use that fact to
basically help us obtain the
segmentation.
Let's just see the edges of this image to
further illustrate that edges won't help
in this case.
So here, I took the green channel of the
color image that we just saw and I
computed, in this case I used MATLAB.
I computed edges.
So we see some spurious edges.
Those don't bother us too much, we
learned in the past how to get rid of
them.
For example by pre-filtering the image,
removing the noise before.
We get nice edges here, but no edges
here, this is a tiny edge because there
is probably a very weak boundary here,
but no edges here.
So we will need other types of
information in order to be able to
segment this ball out of the background.
Looks very simple, but edges are not
sufficient.
What I want to show you in the next
videos is how to incorporate multiple
sources of information.
First, we're going to start in the next
video with half transform that's going to
help us to integrate shape that we know.
If we are looking for a line we can put
that into the segmentation or the
detection algorithm.
If we are looking for circle like here,
we can incorporate that into the
algorithm and we do that with the half
transform.
I'll see you in the next video for that,
thank you.